# Summary
We are designing a cognitive testing platform to be operated by primates in cages at the CDC. A joystick will fit through the bars of the cage and allow the animal to move a cursor on the screen. A feeder system will distribute food pellets into the cage when the primate answers a question correctly. Currently, the CDC uses a legacy Windows XP system to perform the tests and an inefficient 24V DC motor for the feeder system which requires an external power supply to provide adequate voltage. Additionally, the feeder system was designed for pellets larger than the ones used by the CDC currently, sometimes distributing multiple pellets at once. We propose completely replacing this system with a Raspberry Pi and a modern 5V or less DC motor powering a feeding system specifically designed for the correct pellet size. This will also involve re-creating the tests in Python. We believe that replacing the entire system is necessary because the computer that is currently in use has become so slow that it is nearly unusable. The legacy Visual Basic code is inefficient and difficult for current CDC staff to use or develop, and the feeder is overly complicated and imprecise. We anticipate that it will cost $442.89 to replace the current system and for each additional system, which represents a 74.68% cost reduction per system built in the future versus the current cost of $1,749.21 per system. This includes the price of the Pi board, the DC motor, and other parts for the joystick and feeder. We believe that our system will be a massive improvement on the fifteen year old legacy system currently in use, more than justifying the cost of the project.
